---
layout: post
title:  "Notes on Paralysis"
date:   2014-04-08
---

I will probably regret saying this later.

I've been having a lot of trouble talking to people about the work I've been doing. Mostly I'm just really cognizant of the fact that when I do, I'm going to be told to go look at the work of another person, usually a more successful established artist, usually a man. Which, however unintentionally, signals to me that I should probably just give up, because no one's going to listen to me, or whatever I'm doing has already been done. 

There's also this nagging feeling, which is hard to explain, that I really actually need to just die. Like immediately. I think about it every day. And that makes it really hard to care that much about like, anything. Why finish reading an article, why finish writing, why finsh *anything* when the only thing you need to finish is yourself, when you really should go home, immediately, and take all of the stockpiled painkillers in your bathroom. 

I don't like thinking like this. I know it's not okay. But I don't know how to make it stop. 

When I say it is hard to explain, it's because I am often among people who have, seemingly, never actually had anything bad happen to them and/or are completely allergic to emotions. It is hard to explain because those people cannot help me, and the very fact that I need help makes me weak, and they don't have time for weakness. 

When I express concern about elite communities of resistance leaving behind those deemed not good enough, *I'm including myself in that group*. 

Like, hi. Do you really want to talk about anonymity in our day and age? Because there's a massive community of men and women who have been operating an anonymous society of mutual aid for fucking decades all over the world, and it has saved lives. It saved my life. It's been saving my life every fucking day lately, and I'm ashamed of it. I'm ashamed of it because it doesn't fit into the tech-academia-art world's dialogues about surveillance and privacy and resistance. It involves people believeing that something like God *might exist* and it requires letting go of *ego* which is kind of *impossible* for most of you fucking cunts to even *comprehend*.

So it's cool that I've gotten as far as I have considering that I'm useless and incompetent and I don't belong anywhere except maybe in a box, as ashes. But right now I feel pretty fucking paralyzed, and I don't really know what the fuck to do about it, or who the fuck to talk about it with. 